---
layout: default
title: About
---

## Abstract

Students attending a university can benefit from carefully planning out which
courses they will take during the course of their academic career. Developing
such a plan of study can be difficult because students need to consider factors
such as how each course applies to their graduation requirements, whether
course schedules have conflicts, whether the courses are interesting to the
student, and how registering for particular courses can affect their choices of
future courses. In this work, we present a Course Recommendation Ontology,
which aims to represent relevant information about courses, schedules,
graduation requirements, and student interests to enable a recommender system.
Our ontology can be used to enable rule-based recommendations that adhere to
course requirements (such as prerequisite requirements) and can provide
explanations to students about why certain courses are recommended to them.

## Introduction/Motivation

The domain of courses themselves are relatively clear with concrete credit
count, course level and subjects. However, when entered into the domain of
course registration and graduation requirements, more un-described context of
the domain is required to make decisions. Given every semester an average of
around 5000 students all need to simultaneously perform the same action of
comparing available courses with their own graduation requirements, there is a
need for guidance. This guidance at the moment is serviced by academic advisors
that are the subject matter experts that provide this reconciliation of courses
to requirements. To alleviate this enormous constraint on these subject matter
experts (SMEs) and empower students with the appropriate data, an Ontology can
be used to describe the domain and offer a query interface to expose not only
data and requirements, but also the less tangible recommendations that advisors
often provide.

## Team

Kelly Fellenzer - fellek at rpi dot edu

Sola S. Shirai - shiras2 at rpi dot edu

Jacob Shomstein - shomsj at rpi dot edu

Owen Xie  - xieo at rpi dot edu

## Project Overview Diagram

## List of Resources

1. [Ontology](ontology.md)

2. [Term List](termlist.md)

3. [Use Case and Competency Questions](usecase.md)

4. [Presentations](presentations.md)

## Acknowledgements
A huge thank you to our professors Deborah McGuinness and Elisa Kendall for providing help and insight during the development of our Course Recommender Ontology. Additionally, we appreciate all of Sabbir Rashid's and Shruthi Chari's feedback we recieved on our artifacts and presentations.  
